+++
date = '2025-02-24T22:11:49-08:00'
draft = false
title = 'Feb 24 2025'
+++
# i learned
In operating systems class, I learned about the reader/writer synchronization
problem. If we are creating a shared document, we need a way for multiple people
to be able to read it and write it at the same time. The correct solution to this is
to use locks and monitors to protect the section of code that deals with our logical
variables. A couple requirements are that only one person can write to the doc at one 
time, as many people as possible need to be able to read from it. (Also this is 12 hours
after my lecture, I'm just trying to active recall it to the best of my ability).

We have monitor condition variables waitingWriters, waitingReaders, activeReaders, activeWriters. 
Hmm. I have a vague idea, but I am forgetting this stuff. This isn't good. Perhaps my current system
is not optimal in terms of learning and retaining information. Instead of waiting till the end of the 
day to write about what I learned, I will write to this after I spend time learning new things or studying. 
This way I can read through it later that day and have a better idea and maybe be able to expand. 

If I wrote to this right after class, I would be able to explain the reasoning behind this. I will start this tomorrow. 
Also I learned that I hate Javascript. I've been making this calculator app and it doesn't catch my errors in the 
editor and I finally see it in the browser console. Super fucking annoying but oh well. 
