+++
date = '2025-02-22T01:20:16-08:00'
draft = false
title = 'Feb 21 2025'
+++

### i gotta

 - [x] apply to 2 jobs (custom resume, cover letter per role)
 - [x] work 4 hours
 - [x] hit legs in the gym!
 - [x] study more circuit theory

# i learned
I studied another slideshow of my circuit theory class and I went over more fundamental concepts. 
Resistance is the capability to stop the flow of current and is the opposite of conductance. The unit for resistance is 
the ohm. This brings me to the first big concept/strategy for solving circuits: Ohm's law. Ohm's law states that the voltage
across a conductor is proportional to the amount of current that flows through it. $V = IR$

I've been hearing the phrase 'short circuit' my whole life and I finally learned what it is. A short circuit is a circuit
with resistance approaching 0. This makes so much sense because whenever I heard it was always in the context that something
is going to explode or go wrong. If theres no resistance in a circuit the currents gonna go loko! This is in contrast to
an open circuit where the resistance is approaching infinity. Nothing fun happens in an open circuit :(

We brought back the concept of power in conjunction with ohms law: 
$P=IV$

$P=I^2R$

$P=V^2/R$

A branch is a single circuit component like a resistor or voltage source, a node is a connection of at least two branches, and an
essential node is a connection of three or more branches. This brings us to Kirchoff's current law. It states the sum of
all currents entering a node must equal the sum of all currents exiting that node. We can apply this by:
1) assigning a reference direction for each current at a node
2) assigning a positive sign to a current leaving the node and a negative to currents entering that node

A closed loop is any closed path in a circuit. Closed means that the path is complete and uninterrupted. A mesh is a closed
loop that does not contain any other meshes. We use these concepts in Kirchoff's voltage law: The sum of voltages around a 
closed loop is zero. The sum of voltage rises must equal the sum of voltage drops. We can use KVL by:
1) assigning reference polarities to each voltage
2) give positive signs to voltage drops and negative to voltage rises

so far the steps to solve a circuit are:
 - define currents and voltages
 - assign references for these currents and voltages
 - apply KVL to essential nodes
 - apply KCL to meshes
 - apply Ohm's law to resistors in the circuit
 - make sure the number of independent equations equal the number of unknowns
 - SOLVE!!
