+++
date = '2025-02-21T01:30:15-08:00'
draft = false
title = 'Feb 20 2025'
+++

### i learned
I had my computer vision lab in the morning and I spent 99 minutes trying to figure out RANSAC and get it to work. I 
initially thought it was easier than it actually was. I learned how to make the A matrix using numpy. It was just a 
bunch of hardcoded array indexing to put the correct points in the right spots. That took me wayy longer than it should.
So the homography matrix will help us stitch together two images if they have at least 4 feature matches between the two
images. We get the features by using SIFT, (something we just use but do not derive). From these SIFT features, we can
find matches (I forget how we do this its late :(  ) between the two images. If we have at least 4 we can begin our RANSAC
loop. 

Okay first lemme talk about how to compute homography. The homography matrix/vector is a 3x3 matrix or 9 row vector with
values h1 to h9. We don't know these values so we need to figure that out. We do this by creating the A matrix using a 
formula and x,y values from a matching pair from our two images that we want to stitch together. Once we have this matrix,
we can set it up as a least squares problem $Ah = 0$ and through some linear algebra magic we can use the singular value
decompistion to find the eigenvector with the smallest eigenvalue. This eigenvector will be our homography matrix. There
was an intuitive way to think about why it would be the smallest one, but i forget. 

Now I got stuck lol. I know I have to calculate the error for each match (what the slides and directions say) but I have no
idea what that means. Does that mean that we find the error per each matching point? Also, RANSAC counts the number of 
'inliers'. I figure out whether a point is an inlier or not by comparing the points error to the threshold. Ohhhh
So i have to measure the error of every single point among the matching pairs? Ransac will return the best homography matrix.
I understand a bit more but I'm still lost.

I applied to two jobs with customized resumes and cover letters. I was sad because I wrote my cover letters and I used chatgpt
to get feedback and the LLM generated version of my cover letters was so much clearer. I guess my writing skills just need
to improve then. Thats part of the reason I am doing this; to become a better written communicator.

