+++
date = '2025-02-19T13:56:39-08:00'
draft = false
title = 'Feb 19 2025'
+++

### i learned
In the morning I had my operating systems lecture where we discussed various synchronization problems. First, we reviewed
locks (not review for me becuase I missed the last lecture). Locks are a way to protect critical sections of multithreaded
code. One way to do this is to disable all interrupts, but this is an insecure method. 

We introduced the concept of **semaphores**. A semaphore is a type of lock that has a counter with two methods: 
.p() and .v() The p function checks if the variable (semaphores store a non negative integer) is non zero. If it is 
we decrease it. The v function increments the
semaphore by one and wakes up sleeping threads waiting to access the shared data. If we were to imagine two subroutines that
need the same variable, we can initialize a semaphore to 1 and use it to maintain thread safety. Before one subroutine 
accesses that variable we would call `semaphore.p()` to lock it. After we run the critical section (code that should not be
interrupted during its execution) we can call `semaphore.v()` to free it. 

After lecture, I had my lab for OS too. We just began the first project and it seems pretty difficult. We have to implement some thread code to ensure 
proper synchronization no matter the scheduling algorithm. Something cool I did was adding my groupmates to the server. I 
mean its not that cool because how simple it is, but it was something i wasn't able to do before. I just had to `echo` their
ssh keys into the `authorized_users` file. I guess I'm a sys admin now

---

I have a quiz next week for circuit theory so I began my study for it. It was a lot of needed review from physics. Electric
charge is measured in Coulombs. The seperation of charge creates voltage and charge that moves is current. A circuit is a 
bunch of electrical components connected together. Current i is equal to $I = \frac{dQ}{dt}$ where Q is charge and t is time.
Voltage is the energy required to move a charge from point a to point b $V = \frac{dW}{dq}$ W is work here. 
At first this derivative confused me but it makes sense as we want to know how much work it is to move one charge. 
Power is the time rate of delivering or absorbing energy in an object (circuit component) $P = I * V$ 

Theres 5 basic circuit elements: resistors, capacitors, inductors, and current/voltage sources. Its good practice to write
down reference directions and polarities when solving circuits. Current flows from positive terminals to negative. If we 
imagine a circuit element, the side in which current flows into is positive. The side where current escapes is negative. If
current flows through an assumed/given positive terminal and out of the negative, we know that the current/voltage (power)
relationship is positive p=iv. Otherwise it is negative p=-iv. If we see that p is less than 0, then that element delivers
power to the circuit. If P>0, that element absorbs power. The sum of the total power absorbed and delivered must equal zero.

Finally, I went over ideal voltage and current sources. An ideal voltage source maintains its given voltage no matter the 
current. An ideal current source maintains its current no matter the voltage. There are independant voltage/current sources
and voltage/current dependant voltage/current sources. 

---

My last class was computer vision. By this time of the day I am exhausted and I always forget what I learned(even though 
that was the most recent class). I can't even take notes because I miss what my professor talks about while I'm writing. 
We started by summarizing the RANSAC algorithm to stitch together panoramic images. I barely remember the algorithm, but we
need to find matching correspondences in our two images. We need at least 4 to build our homography matrix. Theres something
about inliers and repeating the algorithm for all of the inliers but I forget the details. We began talking about the
Hough transform today. The hough transform is used to find lines in images. This is a step forward as we have only learned
edge detection so far. I am excited to learn more
