+++
date = '2025-03-05T17:20:25-08:00'
draft = false
title = 'Mar 05 2025'
+++

# i learned
in my computer vision lecture today, we learned more about constructing the fundamental matrix. The issue with our approach
was that the $F$ that we find is not guaranteed to have rank 2. We need rank 2 becuase $[e]_x$ has rank two. To make sure
of this, we need to constrain the matrix F. We do this by making another matrix $F'$ that is simply $F$ with its smallest
singular value dropped. The intuition for this is that by dropping the smallest singular value, we remove any noise that 
might be affecting $F$ while keeping it as close as it was before. I also learned that in

$$
a^T B a = 0
$$

B is always a skew symmetric matrix. There was a lot more math too in hopes for going from the fundamental matrix to the
essential matrix to the camera extrinsics to finally get our world point. We are trying to find out where our camera is in
relation to the 3d world.

I started prepping for my operating systems midterm next week. I studied threads today. A thread is the smallest single
unit of execution. I'm trying really hard to put this in simpler terms. When code gets executed on the CPU, at least one 
thread is running. It is also the smallest unit that can get independantly scheduled by the scheduler. A scheduler cannot
schedule a single instruction from a thread. Every thread has a TCB, a thread control block. This is a data structure that
holds all information for a thread. This includes a thread's id, stack pointer, registers, program counter, the thread's 
state, and a pointer to a its process. I forgot to mention every process shares memory and files with their threads. A thread
is always part of a process. A thread also has a stack, registers, and PC. 
